okay so some of the people in the ARMA
forums have questions about the cold
steel hand and a half that just kind of
came out on the market right now so I
wanted some people to see what it looked
like since they're really deceiving with
their product photos this is about the
length that about four inches short of
four feet and one of the things I don't
like about it is it's very blade heavy
it balances somewhere right around here
that's the balance point for the sword
and the material is made out is out of
this the same density throughout the
whole thing
the handle is pretty narrow pretty small
and the blade itself is pretty fat it
tapers very little towards the tip even
though it does in fact tapers so it is
just very very top-heavy when you're
holding it torquing it around in your
arms you can definitely feel almost the
weight is right in here alright some of
the rest of you have questions about how
the guard actually attaches to the sword
and it is a separate piece when you get
your sword this rubber piece actually
comes off
and so does the garden
all right so you've got the main part of
the sword this little guard here and it
snaps into place
and it's in there kind of sturdy it's
pretty thick and bulky it doesn't wiggle
that much and this is what they're
showing in the product photos right
there and they don't show you is this
rubber piece that you have to put on to
make sure that it's fastened on there
and it doesn't slip off it gets on them
it's on there pretty tight once you
actually get it on there
all right so this raises some questions
as far as how the construction of the
sword is going to hold up and it really
comes down to is this little piece of
rubber going to last in a hot car for a
few days and over the course of a few
years we don't know right now looks like
it's holding up this fine other things
about this sword that you should know is
that in order for the guard to stop on
the handle it has this bump here fixed
onto the actual handle this bump right
here might not seem like a big hold on a
second baby down here no way yep yeah
there's a baby there okay all right I
know this part of the handle may not
seem like a big deal but I'm noticing
that when I'm going through my cuts when
I put my hand right here for these kinds
of cuts you know over the top over my
head the inside of my hand is contacting
that stick that part of the handle that
sticks out right there and it's really
not very comfortable this little part
sticking out right here okay here's a
problem I don't like that also on the
pommel this is the hand in half and
you're gonna have your hand on the
pommel a lot there are sharp points
right here on the pommel and I aren't
that comfortable for someone using bare
hands but it's not that bad
I've got some footage I have to put into
the sword smacking a bench outside
and it holds up very well it doesn't
have any problems it's very sturdy and I
think all in all if you can solve these
problems with the pommel maybe put some
extra weight right here this is a really
really good sword for practice and
beginners I think some of you that
already have well constructed wasters
are probably going to like what you
already have better